Do you remember the beautiful dramas
we had at the regional convention
last year?
One of them was
about King Hezekiah.
We saw not only
the threat Jehovah’s people faced
but also the protection
Jehovah provided.
In producing the drama,
the Audio/Video Services Department
used a lot of visual effects.
Let’s go behind the scenes
and find out what the work entailed.
The goal of our visual effects team
is to take the work done
during film production and expand it.
Our work was driven by the Bible account.
The audience needed to feel
the intimidating power of the Assyrian army
while not endangering our actors.
And the use of visual effects
had the added benefit
of drastically saving donated funds.
But this meant creating hundreds
of digital arrows, war machines,
cities, tents, soldiers,
and even an Assyrian palace.
In some cases, the foreground elements
had to be separated
from the background
so digital components could be added.
This was a time-consuming process,
as many foreground elements
had to be cut out frame by frame,
24 times for each second of video.
Our research team ensured
that the world created
was as accurate as possible.
For example,
having period-correct materials
for the temple
as well as accurate stone reliefs.
After filming was complete,
the research team noted
some scenes in the treasury
were accidentally shot
showing priests wearing sandals.
As this was inaccurate,
the issue was corrected
by generating additional digital treasures
and placing them in the foreground.
As we didn’t have
the luxury of 185,000 extras,
actors were dressed in ancient costumes
and their pictures were taken.
We then used these pictures
to create digital extras,
using crowd-simulating software
to place them in the scenes
and drive their movements.
The angel shot proved to be
one of the most challenging.
The original version didn’t have
the dramatic feel needed for the scene.
So the entire sequence was recreated
to more accurately convey
the immense power
that those present must have witnessed.
Finishing this project
on schedule had many challenges.
After hearing about just a few of them,
one industry expert said
what we were attempting was impossible.
But like Hezekiah
when hearing negative reports,
we stayed positive
and relied on Jehovah.
With His help,
the film was completed on time
and is now a wonderful tool
to bring this Bible account to life.